The Heart of Profound Meaning: Instructions on Prajñāpāramitā in One Syllable Namo guru prajñāpāramitāyai! If you wish to take into your experience the one syllable that is the quintessence of the Prajñāpāramitā, first of all perform ablutions, then sit with crossed legs on a comfortable seat. Bring forth the recollection of bodhicitta and recite the following verse three times. In the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Supreme Assembly, I take refuge until awakening. Through the merit of generosity and so forth, May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of beings.] OṂ SVABHĀVA ŚUDDHĀḤ SARVADHARMĀḤ SVABHĀVA ŚUDDHO 'HAṂ Out of emptiness, a seat of a lotus and a moon disc appears. Upon this seat, I instantly appear as Prajñāpāramitā, my body glowing with the lustre of pure gold. I have one face and four arms. In my first right hand I raise a sword in the air and with my first left hand I display the gesture of equipoise. With my second right hand I hold a mālā and with my second left hand I hold a scripture. I am adorned with the full array of silk and jewel ornaments and stand evenly on my two legs. Recite that and visualize accordingly. Then say: Prajñāpāramitā, you transcend words, thought, and description. You are unborn, unceasing, the nature of space, The sphere of self-aware primordial wisdom. Mother of victors past, present, and future, I pay homage to you! Thus did I hear at one time. The Blessed One was dwelling in Rājagṛha at Vulture Peak mountain, together with a great gathering of twelve hundred and fifty monks and many billions of bodhisattvas. At that time, the Blessed One said to venerable Ānanda, "O Ānanda, in order to bring benefit and happiness to sentient beings, remember the Prajñāpāramitā in One Syllable! It goes like this." Thus, recite the introductory part of the sūtra and the instruction to listen while recalling their meaning. Afterward, the vivid appearance of your divine form is purified into emptiness and at the tip of your tongue is a lone A syllable. Focus your attention on that. Then imagine that the A syllable also disappears and, while resting in the state of emptiness that is free of elaborations, recite the syllable A twenty-one times. Following that, from the state of illusory dependent arising, recite the rejoicing all the way to the end: When the Blessed One had said this, Venerable Ānanda together with all the monks and bodhisattva mahāsattvas understood the perfection of wisdom. They rejoiced, and thus praised the speech of the Blessed One. If you are reciting the text many times over, begin your repetitions at the homage. At the end, make dedications and aspirations with this and other prayers: Through this merit may all attain omniscience And conquer the enemy, wrong action! May all be freed from saṃsāra's ocean And its pounding waves of birth, old age, sickness, and death! Practicing the Prajñāpāramitā in One Syllable in this way-perfectly complete with the preliminary, main, and concluding parts of the practice-is of equal merit to reciting once the most extensive Prajñāpāramitā scripture. Such are its immeasurable benefits. Moreover, practicing like this will protect you from the interference of māras and malevolent beings and help you to realize swiftly and directly the essential nature of all phenomena. May the virtue of having thus condensed the intent of the ancient scripture and its clarifications be a cause for all beings to swiftly reach the state of Prajñāpāramitā. Siddhirastu. Sarvamangalaṃ bhavatu. 
